Rtrieu/docs 4797 rum privacy compliance guide (#16842)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_security/real_user_monitoring.md

  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Obfuscate user data with Session Replay default privacy settings"
---

<div class="alert alert-info">This page is about the security of data sent to Datadog. If you're looking for cloud and application security products and features, see the <a href="/security/" target="_blank">Security</a> section.</div>

## Overview
Real User Monitoring (RUM) provides controls for implementing privacy requirements and ensuring organizations of any scale do not expose sensitive or personal information. Data is stored on Datadog-managed cloud instances and encrypted at rest. The default behaviors and configurable options described on this page are designed to protect end user privacy and prevent sensitive organizational information from being collected. Learn more about [Privacy at Datadog][13].
## Compliance frameworks
RUM can be configured for compliance with many standards and regulatory frameworks, including, but not limited to:

- GDPR
- HIPAA 
- ISO
- CCPA/CPRA

## Privacy restrictions
By default, there are some privacy restrictions in place that protect user data to help comply with regulatory and standards frameworks.

### Browser RUM use of cookies

> Browser RUM requires **first party cookies** to be enabled on an end user's browser to collect data. If required by the jurisdictions in which you operate, your pages should be configured so that the end user must accept cookies RUM is initialized and begins collecting data.

Reviewer: > your pages should be configured so that the end user must accept cookies RUM is initialized and begins collecting data.

Should that be "must accept cookies **before** RUM is initialized"?

## Privacy options
You have several options and tools when it comes to collecting and redacting data captured by RUM.

### Event tracking
An [event][14] is a user interaction with specific elements of your site or app. Events can be automatically captured via the SDK or sent via custom actions. You can turn off automatic tracking of user interactions and page views to only capture the interaction of your choice. By default, RUM uses target content to generate action names from actions automatically collected by the SDK. You can [explicitly override][5] this behavior with any given name.

The data we track automatically contains primarily technical information, much of which doesn't include personal identifying information. Data that is captured by RUM can be further redacted before it is sent and stored in Datadog through advanced configuration options for the following methods:

- [beforeSend API][1]
- [iOS][2]
- [Android][3]
- [Flutter][4]

### Transmit RUM events through a proxy server
You can transmit all RUM events through your own [proxy server][15] so that end user devices never directly communicate with Datadog.

### User identity tracking

> By default, there is **no tracking of users' identity**. Each session has a unique `session.id` tied to it, which anonymizes the data, but allows you to understand trends. You have the option of writing code to capture [user data][6] such as name and email address, then using them to [enrich and modify][7] RUM sessions, but they are not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, there is **no tracking of users' identity**. Each session has a unique `session.id` tied to it, which anonymizes the data, but allows you to understand trends. You have the option of writing code to capture [user data][6] such as name and email address, then using that data to [enrich and modify][7] RUM sessions, but this is not required.
```

### Data retention
After you have configured the event capture, events are stored in Datadog. You can decide how long your captured events and properties stay in Datadog.

By default, data retention for production environments is:

- 30 days for sessions, views, actions, errors, and session recordings

> - 15 days for resources and long tasks

Reviewer: Small suggestion to consider adding periods to the end of each bullet point since, when combined with the lead-in text, the bullet points form a sentence. But honestly, I could go either way.

## Session Replay-specific privacy options
See [privacy options specific to Session Replay][12].

### Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/guide/enrich-and-control-rum-data/?tab=event#event-and-context-structure
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/ios/advanced_configuration/?tab=swift#modify-or-drop-rum-events
[3]: /real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#modify-or-drop-rum-events
[4]: /real_user_monitoring/flutter/advanced_configuration/#modify-or-drop-rum-events
[5]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/tracking_user_actions/#declare-a-name-for-click-actions
[6]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/modifying_data_and_context/?tab=npm#user-session
[7]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/modifying_data_and_context/?tab=npm#user-session
[8]: /help/
[9]: /help/
[10]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/#real-user-monitoring

> [11]: /product/sensitive-data-scanner/

Reviewer: This link isn't working for me. I'm not sure if this is the article you meant to link to, but this is the URL when I search for Sensitive Data Scanner in the docs: /account_management/org_settings/sensitive_data_detection
